Create initial Haskell basics/operators page (#29)
haskellfoundation/HaskellSchool: en/lessons/basics/operators.md

operators, and how infix and prefix syntax can be interchanged.

{% include toc.html %}

## Using Operators

Operators in Haskell are functions that can be placed between two arguments: they can
return a value of any type and their names are either a string of symbols or ordinary
function names surrounded in backticks. Using infix notation makes it easier to write
expressions containing many common functions:

```console?lang=haskell&prompt=ghci>,ghci|
ghci> abs . subtract 930233356 $ 2 + 2
930233352
ghci> (`mod` 1119) . negate $ 4
1115
ghci> - (7 + 57843)
-57850
```
__Note__: negate (`-`) is the only unary operator in Haskell.

You may have seen operators such as `+`, `*`, and `.` before. The `$` operator is
useful for removing brackets in function application: `abs . subtract 1 $ 2 + 2` is
equivalent to `(abs . subtract 1) (2 + 2)`.

### Prefix and Infix Notation

To use an operator symbol in prefix notation, as if it were a regular function,
surround it in brackets. Furthermore, you can create partially applied operators by
putting an expression on only one side of the operator:

```console?lang=haskell&prompt=ghci>,ghci|
ghci> (+) 2 3
5

> ghci> (5 +) . (* 2) $ 8

Author: Pick operators for which the side on which the expression is would matter.

21
```

Conversely, to make a regular function identifier an operator, surround it in backticks:

```console?lang=haskell&prompt=ghci>,ghci|
ghci> 2010 `mod` 1998
12

> ghci> (`div` 3) . (* 1471684) $ 5

Author: The usage of the concept of interchange may be confusing for the reader, given that this process is applied twice here: the example makes an ordinary function identifier into an operator, and then back into a prefix function that is partially applied.

2452806
```

### Operator Precedence and Associativity

An operator's precedence and associativity combined is called its fixity, and it
controls how the operator is parsed in an expression. To find out the fixity of an
operator, look through `ghci`'s `:info` or the documentation for the operator:
if fixity information isn't displayed, it defaults to `infixl 9`. The same applies to
regular functions used in infix mode.
```console?lang=haskell&prompt=ghci>,ghci|
ghci> :info (+)

> infixl 6 +

Author: Perhaps put something like `[...]` here to let the reader know text was skipped.

Author: The text above somewhat indicates that output was skipped, but I'd like to know whether others think this is clear enough.

Reviewer: Adding `...` seems like a good idea to me, although not critical.

ghci> :i ($)
infixr 0 $
ghci> :i (==)
infix 4 ==
ghci> :i elem
infix 4 `elem`
```

In Haskell, operators have a precedence level between 0 and 9: this precedence level
is the number in the operator's fixity. To see how a group of expressions
separated by operators would be bracketed, surround the highest precedence operator
and the expressions next to it in brackets, and repeat this process until there
is only one operator left at the highest level of the expression. Here's an example of
applying this process:
```
16425973 + 17149685 * (106 + 235) == 3530784511
         |          │              ╰─ Precedence level 4
         |          ╰─ Precedence level 7
         ╰─ Precedence level 6
16425973 + (17149685 * (106 + 235)) == 3530784511
(16425973 + (17149685 * (106 + 235))) == 3530784511
```

Knowing operator precedence is helpful in writing code without unnecessary brackets:

```console?lang=haskell&prompt=ghci>,ghci|
ghci> (^ (3 - 1)) . subtract 3818 $ 4
14546596

> ghci> (1729 + 1) * 121 `div` 2

Author: Ensure that numbers are used in a way that makes the order of operations easy to deduce. For example here, the fact that the output is odd indicates that divides is of lower precedence than multiplication.

---
version: 1.0.0
title: Operators
---

Haskell provides constructs for using infix binary functions, called operators. In
this lesson you will learn how to define operators and control the parsing of
operators, and how infix and prefix syntax can be interchanged.

{% include toc.html %}

## Using Operators

Operators in Haskell are functions that can be placed between two arguments: they can
return a value of any type and their names are either a string of symbols or ordinary

> function names surrounded in backticks. Using infix notation makes it easier to write

Reviewer 2: I don't know if "they can return a value of any type" is necessary here. I think the sentence would be more clear if it read something like this:
```suggestion
Operators in Haskell are functions that can be placed between two arguments. There are two cases where you can use a function as an operator: when the function name only consists of symbols or when you surround the function name in backticks. Using infix notation makes it easier to write expressions containing many common functions:
```

Author: I agree. The fact that any function can be an operator is made clear later.

expressions containing many common functions:

```console?lang=haskell&prompt=ghci>,ghci|
ghci> abs . subtract 119 $ 2 + 2
115

> ghci> (`mod` 930233356) . negate $ 4

Reviewer 2: partial application of operators might prove a bit confusing for a first example. If anything I suggest breaking this out into a different codeblock and explain what you are trying to demonstrate here.

930233352
ghci> - (7 + 57843)
-57850
```

> __Note__: negate (`-`) is the only unary operator in Haskell.

Reviewer 2: this might be a bit confusing since the `-` is overloaded and can be used for subtraction too.

Author: Furthermore, my note doesn't say what use knowing that "-" is also a unary operator is: I may give an example of how it makes sectioning more difficult.

You may have seen operators such as `+`, `*`, and `.` before. The `$` operator is
useful for removing parentheses in function application: `abs . subtract 1 $ 2 + 2` is
equivalent to `(abs . subtract 1) (2 + 2)`. You can find more examples of operators on
[FPComplete's Operator Glossary](https://www.fpcomplete.com/haskell/tutorial/operators/).

### Interchanging Operators and Functions

To use an operator symbol as if it were a regular function, surround it in parentheses.
Furthermore, you can create partially applied operators, called sections, by putting
an expression on only one side of the operator:

```console?lang=haskell&prompt=ghci>,ghci|
ghci> (+) 2 3
5
ghci> (5 <=) . (* 2) $ 3
True

> ```

Reviewer 2: Ah yeah, this was the kind of explanation I was looking for in the example above.

Author: Is it fine in this order?

Reviewer 2: It might be nice to briefly mention this in the intro to give context, but I leave that decision up to your discretion.

The parenthesised operators in the above example can be treated as equivalent to the following
anonymous functions:
```console?lang=haskell&prompt=ghci>,ghci|
ghci> (\a b -> a + b) 2 3
5
ghci> (\a -> 5 <= a) . (\a -> a * 2) $ 8
True

> ```

Reviewer 2: nice explanation

Author: You can thank soupi for it :).

Conversely, to make a regular function identifier an operator, surround it in backticks:

```console?lang=haskell&prompt=ghci>,ghci|
ghci> 2010 `mod` 1998

> 12

Reviewer 2: Maybe show `mod` used prefix first. I find the contrast can be useful for learning.

ghci> (`div` 3) . (* 1471) $ 5
2451
```

### Operator Precedence and Associativity

An operator's precedence and associativity combined is called its fixity, and it
controls how the operator is parsed in an expression. To find out the fixity of an
operator, look through `ghci`'s `:info` or the documentation for the operator:
if fixity information isn't displayed, it defaults to `infixl 9`. The same applies to

> regular functions used in infix mode.

Reviewer 2: Can you explain what you mean by associativity? i.e. that the prefix of `r` or `l` in the `infixl 9` declaration indicates the direction in which it associates. A really good illustration of this is the `esqueleto` experimental syntax operator `:&`  which allows you to pattern match and ignore all arguments to the left because of its associativity:

```haskell
(a :& b :& c :& d :& e) == (_ :& d :& e)
```

Author: I cover a process that explains how associativity works and then provide a couple examples later on. Do you think these examples build enough intuition? 

I feel like the most intuitive examples of associativity are in data constructors, such as that for list, but I'm not sure I should mention that here.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, this subject does get more advanced very quickly if you delve into to much detail. Again, I leave it to your discretion.

True
```

However, this process may be ambiguous: multiple operators of the highest precedence
could exist. Operator associativity solves this problem. An operator has either left
(`infixl`), right (`infixr`), or neutral (`infix`) associativity. If either all the
operators of the highest precedence in an expression have left associativity, or they
all have right associativity, you can parenthesise the expression by selecting
the leftmost or rightmost operator of highest precedence accordingly. For example,
given that both `+` and `-` have left associativity, you could do the following
process to parenthesise an expression:
```
196418 - 514229 + 317811 - 5605
(196418 - 514229) + 317811 - 5605
((196418 - 514229) + 317811) - 5605
```

Otherwise, if multiple operators of the highest precedence exist, and either one has
neutral associativity or they differ in associativity, Haskell will throw an error:
```console?lang=haskell&prompt=ghci>,ghci|
ghci> 29 + 61 == 3 == True
<interactive>:1:1: error:
    Precedence parsing error
        cannot mix ‘==’ [infix 4] and ‘==’ [infix 4] in the same infix expression
ghci> 0 <> 1 + (-1)
<interactive>:2:1: error:
    Precedence parsing error

>         cannot mix ‘<>’ [infixr 6] and ‘+’ [infixl 6] in the same infix expression

Reviewer 2: nice example

Author: Thanks. It's a small easter egg because it can typecheck if you bracket it: `(0 <> 1) + (-1) :: Sum Integer`.
